# Craftables
[craftables.co][craft] a full-stack web application for the crafting community. Inspired by Instructables, Craftables allows users to post, comment on and share projects. The app utilizes Ruby on Rails on the backend, a PostgreSQL database, and React.js with a Redux architectural framework on the frontend

## Features
###Create Projects
Users can post step-by-step projects with detailed instructions and images or videos. Inspired by Medium's minimalist style, the forms for creating and editing projects are created from simple html form elements. The blank page creates less distraction for the users, allowing them to better channel their artistic spirits.


In the backend, Project and Steps are separate tables. Projects and Steps are stored separately so that that the author can edit each individual steps. The User table keeps references to Projects and Comments. Validations ensure a user is only able to edit/delete their own projects. The Project table keeps reference of the steps.

On entering the update form, and API request is sent to retrieve the project and steps. The information will render inside the form.

When a project is created or updated, an AJAX request saves the project to the Rails database. In the rails database, Keywords will be generated by parsing the title, description and steps title of the project. Duplicate and common words are ignored. The keywords are saved to a Keyword table with references the project through a join table. Any search performed on the app will search by these keywords. The store will update to hold the current project.



###Showcase Project
Users can navigate to the project show page by clicking on the project image in the homepage, search or user profile. Upon entering the page, an API request is sent to fetch the author information, steps, and comments associated with the project. Sticky top and side bars allows users to navigate between steps. Comments are rendered at the bottom of the page along with a form to create a new comment. Clicking the user profile picture will direct to the user profile page. An annoymous is given a default picture. When a new comment is created, and API request will save the comment to the database. The store updates to hold the current list of comments. Newly created comments will render to the bottom of the show page.


## Future Implementations

###Favorites and Suggestions
  Being able to bookmark craft instructions will really improve user experience. I plan to create another Favorite table to keep track of the users Favorite Projects. By using the Keyword table, I can also generate suggestions of projects based on similar keywords.

  ###Messaging
  Messaging is a standard feature on many social applications. I plan to implement this by using WebRTC so that messaging will happen in real time.

[craft]: http://craftables.co
